mercury and argos is one of the few
but wonderful works he paints
Vel치zquez in the 1650s and one of
the last of his life
it is easy to imagine that such a format
elongated and narrow would condition the
composition and would limit
possibilities of the painter maybe that's why
the balance of the
hardly surmountable scene
they have other mythological paintings
Vel치zquez conceives the work in a way
peculiar with an air of reality
everyday and great naturalness results
interesting to compare this box with the
version about the same episode painted
by rubens in the latter is represented
the most dramatic moment in history
when mercury stands and with the sword
in high will kill argos is a scene
energetic very baroque on the other hand
Vel치zquez and Silent Mercury Advance
towards argos almost kidnapping and with stealth
so as not to wake him up
The painter also takes into account the
place of destination of the box at the
apply the technique then to be on
windows was going to look backlit
I had previously used a
technical sketched but this time
arrives at unthinkable daring limits
in a 17th century painter
it's incredibly free there's no
definition everything is suggested with touches
of master brush applied in the
exact site and in the right way
to get the effect you are looking for
the space where the
mercury and argos has singular
importance for other aspects the
redecoration of the hall of mirrors
I was being coordinated by my own
Vel치zquez there they were going to hang paintings
of rubens de tiziano was an ideal setting
to measure yourself with the great masters